# pgBackRest <br/> Contributing to pgBackRest

## Introduction

This documentation is intended to assist contributors to pgBackRest by outlining some basic steps and guidelines for contributing to the project. Coding standards to follow are defined in [CODING.md](https://github.com/pgbackrest/pgbackrest/blob/master/CODING.md). At a minimum, unit tests must be written and run and the documentation run before submitting a Pull Request; see the [Testing](#testing) section below for details.

## Adding an Option

Options can be added to a command or multiple commands. Options can be configuration file only, command-line only or valid for both. Once an option is added, `config.auto.*`, `define.auto.*` and `parse.auto.*` files will automatically be generated by the build system.

To add an option, two files need be to be modified:

- build/lib/pgBackRestBuild/Config/Data.pm

- doc/xml/reference.xml

These files are discussed in the following sections.

### Data.pm

There is a detailed comment at the top of this file on the configuration definitions which one can refer to in determining how to define the rules for the option.

#### Command Line Only Options

Command-line only options are options where `CFGDEF_SECTION` rule is not defined. There are two sections to be updated when adding a command-line only option, each of which is marked by the comment `Command-line only options`.

- **Section 1:** Find the first section with the `Command-line only options` comment. This section defines and exports the constant for the actual option.

- **Section 2:** Find the second section with the `Command-line only options` comment. This is where the rules for the option are defined.

The steps for how to update these sections are detailed below.

**Section 1**

Copy the two lines ("use constant"/"push") of an existing option and paste them where the option would be in alphabetical order and rename it to the same name as the new option name. For example CFGOPT_DRY_RUN, defined as "dry-run".

**Section 2**

To better explain this section, `CFGOPT_ONLINE` will be used as an example:
```
&CFGOPT_ONLINE =>
    {
        &CFGDEF_TYPE => CFGDEF_TYPE_BOOLEAN,
        &CFGDEF_NEGATE => true,
        &CFGDEF_DEFAULT => true,
        &CFGDEF_COMMAND =>
        {
            &CFGCMD_BACKUP => {},
            &CFGCMD_STANZA_CREATE => {},
            &CFGCMD_STANZA_UPGRADE => {},
        }
    },
```
Note that `CFGDEF_SECTION` is not present thereby making this a command-line only option. Each line is explained below:

- CFGOPT_ONLINE - the name of the option as defined in **Section 1**

- CFGDEF_TYPE - the type of the option. Valid types are: `CFGDEF_TYPE_BOOLEAN`, `CFGDEF_TYPE_FLOAT`, `CFGDEF_TYPE_HASH`, `CFGDEF_TYPE_INTEGER`, `CFGDEF_TYPE_LIST`, `CFGDEF_TYPE_PATH`, `CFGDEF_TYPE_SIZE`, and `CFGDEF_TYPE_STRING`


- CFGDEF_NEGATE - being a command-line only boolean option, this rule would automatically default to false so it must be defined if the option is negatable. Ask yourself if negation makes sense, for example, would a --dry-run option make sense as --no-dry-run? If the answer is no, then this rule can be omitted as it would automatically default to false. Any boolean option that cannot be negatable, must be a command-line only and not a configuration file option as all configuration boolean options must be negatable.

- CFGDEF_DEFAULT - sets a default for the option if the option is not provided when the command is run. The default can be global or it can be specified for a specific command in the `CFGDEF_COMMAND` section. For example, if it was desirable for the default to be false for the `CFGCMD_STANZA_CREATE` then CFGDEF_NEGATE => would be set to `true` in each command listed except for `CFGCMD_STANZA_CREATE` where it would be `false` and it would not be specified (as it is here) in the global section (meaning global for all commands listed).

- CFGDEF_COMMAND - list each command for which the option is valid. If a command is not listed, then the option is not valid for the command and an error will be thrown if it attempted to be used for that command.

### reference.xml

All options must be documented or the system will error during the build. To add an option, find the command section identified by `command id="COMMAND"` section where COMMAND is the name of the command (e.g. `expire`) or, if the option is used by more than one command and the definition for the option is the same for all of the commands, the `operation-general title="General Options"` section.

To add an option, add the following to the `<option-list>` section; if it does not exist, then wrap the following in `<option-list>` `</option-list>`. Note that his example uses the boolean option `force` of the `restore` command. Simply replace that with your new option and the appropriate `summary`, `text` and `example`.
```
<option id="force" name="Force">
    <summary>Force a restore.</summary>

    <text>By itself this option forces the <postgres/> data and tablespace paths to be completely overwritten.  In combination with <br-option>--delta</br-option> a timestamp/size delta will be performed instead of using checksums.</text>

    <example>y</example>
</option>
```

## Testing

For testing, it is recommended that Vagrant and Docker be used; instructions are provided in the `README.md` file of the pgBackRest [test](https://github.com/pgbackrest/pgbackrest/tree/master/test) directory. A list of all possible test combinations can be viewed by running:
```
/backrest/test/test.pl --dry-run
```
If using a RHEL system, the CPAN XML parser is required for running `test.pl` and `doc.pl`. Instructions for installing Docker and the XML parse can be found in the `README.md` file of the pgBackRest [doc](https://github.com/cmwshang/pgbackrest/tree/master/doc) directory in the section "The following is a sample CentOS/RHEL 7 configuration that can be used for building the documentation". NOTE that the `Install latex (for building PDF)` is not required since testing of the docus need only be run for HTML output.

While some files are automatically generated during `make`, others are generated by running the test harness as follows:
```
/backrest/test/test.pl --gen-only
```
Prior to any submission, the html version of the documentation should also be run.
```
/backrest/doc/doc.pl --out=html
```
> **NOTE:** `ERROR: [028]` regarding cache is invalid is OK; it just means there have been changes and the documentation will be built from scratch. In this case, be patient as the build could take 20 minutes or more depending on your system.

### Writing Unit Tests

The goal of unit testing is to have 100 percent coverage. Two files will usually be involved in this process:

- **define.yaml** - defines the number of tests to be run for each module and test file. There is a comment at the top of the file that provides more information about this file.

- **src/module/somefileTest.c** - where "somefile" is the path and name of the test file where the unit tests are located for the code being updated (e.g. `src/module/command/expireTest.c`).

#### define.yaml

Each module is separated by a line of asterisks (*) and each test within is separated by a line of dashes (-). In the example below, the module is `command` and the unit tests is `check`. The number of calls to `testBegin()` in a unit test file will dictate the number following `total:`, in this case 2. Under `coverage:`, the list of files that will be tested must be listed followed by the coverage level, which should always be `full`.
```
# ********************************************************************************************************************************
  - name: command

    test:
      # ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      - name: check
        total: 2

        coverage:
          command/check/common: full
          command/check/check: full
```

#### somefileTest.c

Assuming that a test file already exists, new unit tests will either go in a new `testBegin()` section or be added to an existing section.
```
// *****************************************************************************************************************************
if (testBegin("expireBackup()"))
```
