doc/README.md, before:

# pgBackRest <br/> Building Documentation

## General Builds

The pgBackRest documentation can output a variety of formats and target several platforms and PostgreSQL versions.

This will build all documentation with defaults:
```bash
./doc.pl
```
The user guide can be built for different platforms: `centos7`, `centos8` and `debian`. This will build the HTML user guide for CentOS/RHEL 7:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --var=os-type=centos7
```
Documentation generation will build a cache of all executed statements and use the cache to build the documentation quickly if no executed statements have changed. This makes proofing text-only edits very fast, but sometimes it is useful to do a full build without using the cache:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --var=os-type=centos8 --no-cache
```
Each `os-type` has a default container image that will be used as a base for creating hosts. For `centos7`/`centos8` these defaults are generally fine, but for `debian` it can be useful to change the image.
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --var=os-type=debian --var=os-image=debian:9
```
The following is a sample CentOS/RHEL 7 configuration that can be used for building the documentation.
```bash
# Install docker
sudo yum install -y yum-utils device-mapper-persistent-data lvm2
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo
sudo yum install -y docker-ce
sudo systemctl start docker

# Install tools
sudo yum install -y git wget

# Install latex (for building PDF)
sudo yum install -y texlive texlive-titlesec texlive-sectsty texlive-framed texlive-epstopdf ghostscript

# Install Perl modules that do not have CentOS packages via CPAN
sudo yum install -y yum cpanminus
sudo yum groupinstall -y "Development Tools" "Development Libraries"
sudo cpanm install --force XML::Checker::Parser

# Add documentation test user
sudo groupadd test
sudo adduser -gtest -n testdoc
sudo usermod -aG docker testdoc
```

## Building with Packages

A user-specified package can be used when building the documentation. Since the documentation exercises most pgBackRest functionality this is a great way to smoke-test packages.

The package must be located within the pgBackRest repo and the specified path should be relative to the repository base. `test/package` is a good default path to use.

Ubuntu 16.04:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --no-cache --var=os-type=debian --var=os-image=ubuntu:16.04 --var=package=test/package/pgbackrest_2.08-0_amd64.deb
```
CentOS/RHEL 7:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --no-cache --var=os-type=centos7 --var=package=test/package/pgbackrest-2.08-1.el7.x86_64.rpm
```
CentOS/RHEL 8:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --no-cache --var=os-type=centos8 --var=package=test/package/pgbackrest-2.08-1.el8.x86_64.rpm
```
Packages can be built with `test.pl` using the following configuration on top of the configuration given for building the documentation.
```bash
# Install recent git
sudo yum remove -y git
sudo yum install -y https://centos7.iuscommunity.org/ius-release.rpm
sudo yum install -y git2u-all

# Install Perl modules
sudo yum install -y perl-ExtUtils-ParseXS perl-ExtUtils-Embed perl-ExtUtils-MakeMaker perl-YAML-LibYAML

# Install dev libraries
sudo yum install -y libxml2-devel openssl-devel

# Add test user with sudo privileges
sudo adduser -gtest -n test
sudo usermod -aG docker test
sudo chmod 750 /home/test

sudo echo 'test ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL' > /etc/sudoers.d/pgbackrest

# Add pgbackrest user required by tests
sudo adduser -gtest -n pgbackrest
```

Commit message:

Consolidate RHEL/CentOS user guide into a single document.
The user guide was split primarily to provide documentation for the stop-auto option in PostgreSQL <= 9.5. Now that 9.5 is EOL there does not seem to be a good reason to generate an extra user guide. The stop-auto function is still documented in the reference.

Leave the stop-auto documentation in the user guide in case we want to manually generate documentation for older versions.

Also rename centos to rhel for most identifiers since that is the core platform we are building for, similar to how we label 'debian' builds even though we generally use Ubuntu. With CentOS set to become an upstream for RHEL later this year, we'll likely need to pick a new test distribution, perhaps Rocky Linux if that gets off the ground.

doc/README.md, after:

# pgBackRest <br/> Building Documentation

## General Builds

The pgBackRest documentation can output a variety of formats and target several platforms and PostgreSQL versions.

This will build all documentation with defaults:
```bash
./doc.pl
```
The user guide can be built for `rhel` and `debian`. This will build the HTML user guide for RHEL/CentOS:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --var=os-type=rhel
```
Documentation generation will build a cache of all executed statements and use the cache to build the documentation quickly if no executed statements have changed. This makes proofing text-only edits very fast, but sometimes it is useful to do a full build without using the cache:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --var=os-type=rhel --no-cache
```
Each `os-type` has a default container image that will be used as a base for creating hosts but it may be useful to change the image.
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --var=os-type=debian --var=os-image=debian:9
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --var=os-type=rhel --var=os-image=centos:7
```
The following is a sample RHEL/CentOS 7 configuration that can be used for building the documentation.
```bash
# Install docker
sudo yum install -y yum-utils device-mapper-persistent-data lvm2
sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo
sudo yum install -y docker-ce
sudo systemctl start docker

# Install tools
sudo yum install -y git wget

# Install latex (for building PDF)
sudo yum install -y texlive texlive-titlesec texlive-sectsty texlive-framed texlive-epstopdf ghostscript

# Install Perl modules that do not have CentOS packages via CPAN
sudo yum install -y yum cpanminus
sudo yum groupinstall -y "Development Tools" "Development Libraries"
sudo cpanm install --force XML::Checker::Parser

# Add documentation test user
sudo groupadd test
sudo adduser -gtest -n testdoc
sudo usermod -aG docker testdoc
```

## Building with Packages

A user-specified package can be used when building the documentation. Since the documentation exercises most pgBackRest functionality this is a great way to smoke-test packages.

The package must be located within the pgBackRest repo and the specified path should be relative to the repository base. `test/package` is a good default path to use.

Ubuntu 16.04:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --no-cache --var=os-type=debian --var=os-image=ubuntu:16.04 --var=package=test/package/pgbackrest_2.08-0_amd64.deb
```
RHEL/CentOS 7:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --no-cache --var=os-type=rhel --var=os-image=centos:7  --var=package=test/package/pgbackrest-2.08-1.el7.x86_64.rpm
```
RHEL/CentOS 8:
```bash
./doc.pl --out=html --include=user-guide --no-cache --var=os-type=rhel --var=os-image=centos:8 --var=package=test/package/pgbackrest-2.08-1.el8.x86_64.rpm
```
Packages can be built with `test.pl` using the following configuration on top of the configuration given for building the documentation.
```bash
# Install recent git
sudo yum remove -y git
sudo yum install -y https://centos7.iuscommunity.org/ius-release.rpm
sudo yum install -y git2u-all

# Install Perl modules
sudo yum install -y perl-ExtUtils-ParseXS perl-ExtUtils-Embed perl-ExtUtils-MakeMaker perl-YAML-LibYAML

# Install dev libraries
sudo yum install -y libxml2-devel openssl-devel

# Add test user with sudo privileges
sudo adduser -gtest -n test
sudo usermod -aG docker test
sudo chmod 750 /home/test

sudo echo 'test ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL' > /etc/sudoers.d/pgbackrest

# Add pgbackrest user required by tests
sudo adduser -gtest -n pgbackrest
```
